In the last lecture you've seen how we can move even the handling of our particular eloquent model from
the model itself and using closures on the boot method of that model to a specific class that was called
an observer.
So what you would also have to know is that the events are built in into Lavell.
So what I mean by that is lot itself is depart dispatching many events of different kind.
When something happens also you can create your own events and dispatch them and then handle them somehow.
So they are generally free.
Fixing this.
So there are events which are just a simple classes that will contain some data.
So for example here with the green color you see events and other classes that are predefined in Lavell.
So for example whenever someone registers lower level will dispatch are registered event.
And then there is at least an error.
So what is the and released there.
There is also a class but it can only handle one type of the event but the upside of at least an hour
is that it can be a cube job so it can immediately go on a queue.
Now there are also subscribers and subscribers can handle many events at once.
So you can create one class that can have some logic for handling one two three or five events in one
class but subscriber cannot be a cute job.
So let's take a look at an example.
So in our project we have inside the folder there is the register controller and this was immediately.
This was generated by Lavell.
And what this does is you can also check out the registers user trade and there is this register method.
So what you can see is that when you register and this controller is responsible for creating a new
user it's calling event helper method and is dispatching registered event.
Now let's take a look at this registered event so this class is also part of the Lavell.
It's a very simple class.
So as I've said it only contains some data.
This class doesn't do anything on its own doesn't contain any metals or any business or logic inside
it.
So it's a kind of data holder and well it describes what has happened.
So the name of the event class should be descriptive.
Now you can see that it accepts a user and then stores it on a public field.
It also has this serialize as models trade because you can use that inside the queue and then this will
just serialize the model which means using that BHP serialize function.
So then this model can be read whenever the queue process or which is a different process can read the
data that was stored on an event but let's go back to this register controller and so now you know that
there is an event being dispatched to whenever you register it is actually done explicitly on this very
method.
So this dispatches the registered event.
Now let's go back to our diagram.
So I've said that there are either list in our classes or subscriber classes so we can choose whichever
you'd like to use.
Now there is this sent email verification notification list under which handles the registered class
and let's take a look at it.
So now let's open the event service provider.
This is a class where you will register your events.
So on this class you can see a list and protect that field where you will specify for what event.
What list honors have to be called.
So you can specify multiple of them.
So one event can be handled by many list and there is depending on what logic is inside those least
honors.
So let's open this one now you can see this only has a simple handle method and this handle method accepts
an instance of uneven so you can see this handles only the registered event and it was configured that
way.
So this will know that the handle method of this list listener will receive this event.
Now as we've seen this event has some data which is basically a user.
So now you can read this user from this event and do something.
In this case this is just sending and verification email to the particular user now using events.
You can just decouple your logic from one place.
In this case not everything will happen inside a controller so you won't have to modify a controller
whenever you would like to add some additional logic when for example user is registering inside your
application.
So by simply dispatching this event here we now have possibilities to create some released owners or
subscribers which we'll get to in a couple of lectures and then you can add some additional logic whatever
that might be you might for example call some external API save some additional data inside the database
but whatever you'd like to do now this is much simpler.
So since Lavell is using that well this is also available for us to create.
So we can create our own events and we can also create our custom list owners or subscribers.
So let's take a look at the example we've been working on in the past couple of lectures.
So here we create a new comment on a blog post.
Now what we are doing is we want to send one email to the blog post outdoor and then we dispatch another
job on the queue which is responsible for sending some more emails to other users.
So now let's think of this as well we might add some more logic to this whatever that might be we might
want to cash something or call some external API and then whenever new comment will be created it also
doesn't have to only happen inside this single controller.
It might happen in let's say a different controller for the API or well in the admin panel and then
you would like to also do something when this has happened.
So new comment was added or basically any other thing that might have happened in your application.
So instead of copy pasting the same logic or finding some strange way to handle that the simplest way
is just to dispatch an event and we'll do that in the next lecture we will create this comment posted
event and you will see how we can simply add some list entries that will then do something as a response
that the comment was posted and you will also learn in the next lectures how to create a subscriber.
It's all very simple and actually the concept is also very simple as you can see on this diagram.
This is basically everything that happens so a lot of it is dispatching some events when something happens
so you will know in couple of more lectures.
What are those events and what you can subscribe to using either list and there are subscriber and you
can also create your own events.
So whenever something happens you just dispatch an event and any additional logic required to handle
this event or do some additional stuff can just be a listener or a subscriber and thus you can appreciate
especially if your application grows.
Or you might have a couple of places that do a certain thing like store a comment on the database so
then you will have a simple way of adding something additional that has to happen in response to the
initial event that was that happened in the first place.
So let's see how we can create our own event in the next lecture.